Capstone Project Proposal: Song Hit Prediction
Springboard Data Science Intensive
Nathan Black
2017-07-22


What is the problem you want to solve?

A music recording label receives thousands of submissions by artists who are looking to be signed by the label or sell 
their song to be performed by artists who are already in the industry. Reviewers working at these recording companies must determine 
which artists and/or songs to invest in based on the expected potential of the song being released on the market. While tools do
exist to assist reviewers with this task, the process remains primarily manual.

What data are you going to use for this? How will you acquire this data?

The data will be sourced from UCI Machine Learning Repository (https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/yearpredictionmsd) and will 
include approximately half-a-million records with 90 song variables. Since this data was gathered to be used for a different purpose, 
additional sources of data including Billboard's year-end chart data (http://www.billboard.com/charts/year-end) will be required to 
append a song-success dependent variable needed for this project. As time permits, other data sources will be explored and added
if they improve the predictive power of the model.

In brief, outline your approach to solving this problem (knowing that this might change later).

1. Data Collection: Extract data from sources listed above
2. Data Preprocessing: Wrangle and munge data to prepare it for further analysis
3. Exploratory Data Analysis: Explore data to find insights that guide the formation of hypotheses for what drives song success
4. Feature Engineering: Reframe and combine variables to extract as much relevant information from the data as possible
5. Modeling: Build and test a variety of models to find the one that performs the best
6. Evaluation: Test selected model(s) to ensure generalization to new (unseen) data
7. Deployment: Input model into production environment and test various cases to ensure model performs well for the end user

What are your deliverables? Typically, this would include code, along with a paper and/or a slide deck.

1. Code: Data collection, preparation, exploratory analysis, modeling steps and final model
2. Paper: Methodology write-up
3. Slide Deck: Presentation of findings and approach

