Project Proposals
Springboard Data Science Intensive
2017-07-01
Nathan Black


1. Song Hit Prediction

Problem: A music recording label receives thousands of submissions by artists who are looking to be signed by the label or sell 
their song to be performed by artists who are already in the industry. Reviewers working at these recording companies must determine 
which artists and/or songs to invest in based on the expected potential of the song being released on the market. While tools do
exist to assist reviewers with this task, the process remains primarily manual.

Solution: Build a model to predict the success of a song release based on song characteristics (e.g. genre, harmonic progression,
structure, loudness, tempo, meter, complexity, syncopation, repitition, mood, etc). The model would be used by reviewers
to filter the selection of candidate songs and boost ROI for songs the music label releases.

Data: The data will be sourced from UCI Machine Learning Repository and will include approximately half-a-million records with 90 
song variables. Since this data was gathered to be used for a different purpose, additional sources of data will be required to 
append a song-success dependent variable needed for this project. As time permits, other data sources will be explored and added
if they improve the predictive power of the model.


2. Call Center Sentiment Analysis and Topic Modeling
Problem: The management at a call center would like to determine customers' call experience favorability and categorize calls by topic.
This will be used for hiring and training call center staff.

Solution: Build a model to indicate the sentiment of the inbound caller based on linguistic variables. Build an additional model to
classify call conversations into a digestable number of topics.

Data: The data will be sourced from the American National Corpus and will include call log attributes as well as call transcripts.

3. Dress for the Job You Want
Problem: Individuals seeking to build their careers must dress to impress if they are to be taken seriously at their place of 
employment. However, many (especially those new to the workforce) face the challenge of not having a sense for what the appropriate
dress should be nor what kind of impression they are giving off when they wear the outfits they currently own.

Soution: Build a model that classifies images of outfits into matching job roles (e.g. Intern, Junior Employee, Management,
Director, C-Suite). Individuals would input images of their daily outfits into the model and the output would be the closest matching
job role to their current outfit. 

Data: The data will be sourced from google images. 
